I'm going to show you how to prepare and
fry a flatfish the two fish I'm working
with today a lemon sole lemons sold
identified by the lemons shape of the
body but also a little bit of yellow
piping or little strip of yellow which
runs around by the side of the gill the
other flatfish we have here is a place
identified by its large orange spots for
the freshness of this fish it wants to
have a little bit of give in the body
and again a really pleasant aroma of the
sea for the preparation what we're going
to do is actually fill it the fish and
the best way to do that is to take a
sharp bulleting knife turn the fish
towards you and then using or cutting
close into the back of the head I'm
going to mark making sure that I don't
cut too much into the flesh having
marked with my knife I'm then going to
use scissors just to cut the head off a
fish monger we just use the knife to
continue this but to be on the safe side
scissors is a better option having done
that if you wanted to cook this fish
hole you'd need to clean it out a little
bit you don't need to remove the blood
line which is in this part of the fish
where my finger is and you'd also need
to trim away these fins a little bit of
seasoning and you can just cook the fish
as it is I'm going to show you the
method that a chef would use to fill it
the fish a fishmonger would use a
slightly different technique we want to
take four Phillips off this fish and to
do so I'm going to make an incision
using the whole length of the blade
right the way down the center of the
fish until I actually come into contact
with bone I'm going to make a little
mark towards the tail end of the fish to
give me a point of exit running my
finger along the inside of the bone I
can feel a little Ridge of backbone in
there and that's where I'm going to
actually lie and rest my knife and
taking the tip of the knife I'm going to
just gradually draw it down the middle
listening for that pinging of the bone
going to do that once and in a second
time and then using a long sweeping
action going to stroke the Filat away
from
the bone stroking right to the edge put
the knife down
and pull the fill it away but that is
fill it number one I'm then going to
turn the fish this way around and again
getting the tip of the knife over the
backbone so your resting is on that
little Ridge of bones and then dragging
it down and this way you keep really
really close to the actual bone and not
leave too much flesh behind then a long
sweeping action again always avoid doing
small cutting actions long sweep so you
end up with a nice clean cut and when
you get to that stage if you're
concerned about cutting yourself turn
the fish away from you and point of the
knife and sweep that around right to the
edge to take the foot away
that gives you two Phillips you then
would fit turn the fish over to the
second slide or the white side exactly
the same as before using the whole
length of the blade make an incision
straightaway through to the bone and
then exactly as before leaning the fish
down or leaving the knife down and
stroking the fish fill it away using
that long sweeping action and that's how
you would fill it your fish again a
little bit of row there that I'm going
to discard the second side as before
having fileted the fish I'm then going
to turn my attentions to the skinning
we're going to start with the fish fill
it so that you have the thinnest part of
the fill it towards you and you skin the
fish so that you actually have the skin
side in contact with the board using the
knife I'm going to start at the thin end
of the fill it and carefully cutting
away and getting the good angle with
your knife so that you're keeping really
close to the skin you can practically
feel the knife squeaking against the
skin as you lift the fill it away you
need to have a good contact with a knife
and then pull the skin towards you so
you have an action with pulling towards
you and cutting away with a knife
keeping good contact with the skin peel
that away the skin can go into stock if
you want that later
a well skinned piece of fish should have
a nice gloss and shine on the actual
fish village and these little bits of
trimming we could pull away and use
those in stock as well and again exactly
the same process with the other four
Filat moving on from the actual filling
and skinning of the fish I'm now going
to move on to the pan frying I have in
here four lemon sole Phillips that were
actually prepared and skinned a little
bit earlier on and what I'm going to do
with those is roll them in seasoned
flour we have salt and pepper in here so
it wants to be nicely seasoned and the
flours going to give it a really nice
well-seasoned coat it's important when
you're flowering fish that you just do
it prior to cooking don't put the fish
in the flour and then leave it sitting
around for any length of time because
the fish will actually begin to go a
little bit soggy the other key point
with this is that you don't want to
stack the fish so once it's actually
floured just leave it as it is but don't
stack it again that's more likely to
make the fish a little bit soggy now for
cooking generally speaking with this
type of fish it's not going to take very
long in the frying pan so what I want to
do with that is get that butter and some
oil together so that the butters
actually really hot and foaming and
sizzling as soon as it stops sizzling
it's hot enough to actually cook the
fish which goes in and drop that into
the pan and it just starts sizzling and
I'm actually dropping the fish in so
that the fish that was bone side or fish
that was in contact with a bone she goes
into the pan first of all I'm going to
cook that for about 20 seconds on each
side and then roll the fish over that's
at about 20 seconds I'm going to flip
flip the fish over to cook on to the
second side
and that flow'd have just begun to
lightly brown and then a further 20
seconds or so and then I'm going to just
add a little bit of lemon juice and some
parsley to the pan we have seasoned
flour in there already so we don't
actually need to season it any further
so one fish fill it out it's lost its
translucency and feels nice and firm so
one two three four and then finally
lemon juice and parsley
and then just pour that over the fish to
serve and that's how you fill it skin
and pan fry a flat